README.md, before:

# ALEA &lt;oXygen/> Framework

&lt;oXygen/> Anpassungen für die Edition Ibn Nubata

## Installation

The framework can be installed from the following URL:

[https://zivgitlab.uni-muenster.de/SCDH/hees-alea/oxygen-framework/-/package_files/3594/download](https://zivgitlab.uni-muenster.de/SCDH/hees-alea/oxygen-framework/-/package_files/3594/download)

The linked `scdh-alea-oxygen-extension-<VERSION>.jar` must first be
downloaded and then the downloaded file can be installed.

TODO: Provide an install/update site. oXygen needs an xml registry of packages!

As an alternative, the framework can be packaged locally for
installation or it can be installed for hacking.

## Packaging

Packaging is done with [`maven`](https://maven.apache.org/).

	$ mvn package
	
This will create a `scdh-alea-oxygen-extension-<VERSION>.jar` in the
`target` folder. This jar-File contains the framework (and its
dependencies) and can be distributed to users.

## Hacking

Installing the framework as an &lt;oXygen/> package will make it
read-only. For hacking on it's code you can install it by registering
the path to the cloned repository in &lt;oXygen/>'s settings.

- 1) Clone this repository, e.g. to a subfolder called `alea
	oxygen-framework` in a folder called `src` in your home directory.

- 2) Start &lt;oXygen/> and select `Options` -> `Preferences` from the
  menu. Expand `Document Type Association` on the left and select
  `Locations [P]` under it. Click `Add` to add a new additional
  framework directory.  Enter
  `${homeDir}/src/alea-oxygen-framework/frameworks/teip5alea` as
  directory and click `OK`.
  
- 3) Close and restart &lt;oXygen/>. The framework is now present as an
  extension to the default TEI P5 framework throughout all your
  projects.

Notice that `${homeDir}` is a so called editor variable. &lt;oXygen/>
expands it to the path of your home directory. This method should be
portable.


## Unit Tests

There are unit tests for the XSL transformations based on
[`XSpec`](https://github.com/xspec/xspec) in `test/xspec`. The tests
can easily be run with maven from the root directory of the
repository:

	mvn test

Maven will install all required packages for running the tests,
e.g. `XSpec` and `Saxon-HE`. A detailed test report can be viewed with
the browser in `target/xspec-reports/index.html`.

The test suite or single tests can also be run from the root of this
repository with

	<path-to/xspec.sh> test/xspec/*.xspec

This requires `XSpec` and `Saxon-HE` installed. The test result is in
`test/xspec/xspec/*-review.html`.

Commit message:

copy jar files to pages
- as long as we don't know how to make packages visible to everyone,
  we need to copy them to giblab pages in order to make them
  accessible to ALEA users

README.md, after:

# ALEA &lt;oXygen/> Framework

&lt;oXygen/> Anpassungen für die Edition Ibn Nubata

## Installation

The framework can be installed with &lt;oXygen/> installation and
update mechanism. Therefore, the following URL has to be entered into
the form "Show addons from:" of the dialogue box from "Help" -> "Install
new addons...".

[https://scdh.zivgitlabpages.uni-muenster.de/hees-alea/oxygen-framework/descriptor.xml](https://scdh.zivgitlabpages.uni-muenster.de/hees-alea/oxygen-framework/descriptor.xml)

As an alternative, the framework can be packaged locally for
installation or it can be installed for hacking.

## Packaging

Packaging is done with [`maven`](https://maven.apache.org/).

	$ mvn package
	
This will create a `scdh-alea-oxygen-extension-<VERSION>.jar` in the
`target` folder. This jar-File contains the framework (and its
dependencies) and can be distributed to users.

## Hacking

Installing the framework as an &lt;oXygen/> package will make it
read-only. For hacking on it's code you can install it by registering
the path to the cloned repository in &lt;oXygen/>'s settings.

- 1) Clone this repository, e.g. to a subfolder called `alea
	oxygen-framework` in a folder called `src` in your home directory.

- 2) Start &lt;oXygen/> and select `Options` -> `Preferences` from the
  menu. Expand `Document Type Association` on the left and select
  `Locations [P]` under it. Click `Add` to add a new additional
  framework directory.  Enter
  `${homeDir}/src/alea-oxygen-framework/frameworks/teip5alea` as
  directory and click `OK`.
  
- 3) Close and restart &lt;oXygen/>. The framework is now present as an
  extension to the default TEI P5 framework throughout all your
  projects.

Notice that `${homeDir}` is a so called editor variable. &lt;oXygen/>
expands it to the path of your home directory. This method should be
portable.


## Unit Tests

There are unit tests for the XSL transformations based on
[`XSpec`](https://github.com/xspec/xspec) in `test/xspec`. The tests
can easily be run with maven from the root directory of the
repository:

	mvn test

Maven will install all required packages for running the tests,
e.g. `XSpec` and `Saxon-HE`. A detailed test report can be viewed with
the browser in `target/xspec-reports/index.html`.

The test suite or single tests can also be run from the root of this
repository with

	<path-to/xspec.sh> test/xspec/*.xspec

This requires `XSpec` and `Saxon-HE` installed. The test result is in
`test/xspec/xspec/*-review.html`.
